Initial Setup: Apache Pulsar Contributor Repository Structure (#2)
apache/pulsar-java-contrib: best-practice-blogs/consume-best-practice.md

# Consume Best Practice

## Background Knowledge

### Subscription Types

Pulsar is a distributed message system where messages can be sent to topics by producers and consumed by consumers.
Consumers can subscribe to the topics in four ways (subscription types):

* **Exclusive**
* **Failover**
* **Shared**
* **Key-shared**

The messages are consumed in order for a single partition in Exclusive and Failover modes and out of order for Shared and
Key-shared mode. The main difference between Exclusive and Failover is that in Exclusive mode, the consumer is exclusive
to the entire topic, while in Failover mode, the consumer is exclusive to only one partition. Failover mode allows backup
consumer connections that are not consumed. The main difference between Shared and Key-shared is whether their dispatch

> strategy is implemented via a key. For more information about subscription type, refer to the [Pulsar website](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/3.2.x/concepts-messaging/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
strategy is implemented via a key. For more information about subscription type, refer to the [Pulsar website](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/next/concepts-messaging/).
```
